In this video I will show you multiple ways to generate random numbers.
So this number you might think it's random because I just came up with it.
Here's another random number.
Maybe I'll put a decimal point here that's kind of random because I'm just playing around on the keyboard.
But maybe we want to generate hundreds or thousands, or maybe even millions of random numbers.
We need to generate lots of random numbers in deep learning, because when we train deep learning models,
we start with a model full of random weights.
So we need to initialize a bunch of random numbers.
And this is going to be literally millions of random numbers.
And so I'm not going to sit around all day and just do it here.
I already messed up here.
Okay.
Anyway, there is a module in numpy called numpy dot random.
So it's a module which means it's kind of like a library inside of a library.
So you learned how to use, uh, functions that are inside a library by writing the name of the library
and then a dot a period and then the name of the function.
So you can also have something like a mini library that's embedded inside another library.
And that's generally called a module.
Okay.
So there is a module in numpy called random.
So now I write numpy dot random dot.
So it's a second dot.
And let's start with the function rand n.
So the rand of course is for random and the n is for normal distribution or Gaussian distribution.
This means numbers that are drawn from a distribution with a mean of zero.
So an average number of zero and a standard deviation of one.
And basically that means that we're going to get some negative numbers and some positive numbers.
So here I get minus two point blah blah blah.
I'm sure if you run this code on your computer you got a completely different number.
In fact, I'm going to run this multiple times.
And you can see every time I run exactly the same code.
The code isn't changing, but the output is changing.
And why is the output changing?
Because it's generating random numbers.
Okay, so this is one random number.
If I want ten random numbers I just put ten in here.
And now I get a numpy array.
And you can see it's 12345 by two now.
So that's ten numbers in total.
This looks like it's a matrix.
It looks like it's a two by five matrix of numbers.
But it's not really a matrix.
Python is just printing out.
It's wrapping around this array when it prints out.
So this is so this is just 110 element vector.
We can actually create a two by five matrix of random numbers by inputting a two comma five.
And then the result is.
Now, initially this might look the same, but we have to be really careful about the let me do this
to make sure this is clear.
The square brackets here.
So notice there are two differences between this output and this output.
One difference is that the numbers themselves are different.
But these are just random numbers.
So don't pay any attention to that.
What I do want you to pay attention to is the number and the placement of the square brackets.
So here when I write random dot rand n with just ten, then we get one opening bracket here, no closing
bracket here.
And there's a closing bracket here.
So this is like one list okay.
And then here this is two by five as the input.
Now notice that here there are two open brackets one closing bracket here one opening bracket and two
closing brackets.
So what's really happening is that there are two sets.
This is one set of numbers, one like list of numbers.
It's a row.
And here is a second row here.
And the rows are encased by square brackets.
And then we have two rows forming a matrix or a two dimensional array.
And that is contained inside another square bracket.
Okay I hope that makes sense.
So the difference between two comma five and ten.
Now we can do this two comma three.
Yeah.
So we can specify the size of this matrix here.
Okay.
So this is normally distributed random numbers.
Here we can also access or create uniformly distributed random numbers.
Now uniform distribution means all the numbers between 0 and 1 are equally likely to occur.
But what if we want uniformly distributed numbers between about minus one and plus three.
So now I can use two inputs here.
And this corresponds to the lower bound.
And this is the upper bound of the uniform distributed random numbers.
We can also optionally specify lo equals this and high equals this.
So this is one number.
And then I'm going to write size equals ten by ten.
And now this gives me a ten by ten matrix.
So 100 numbers in total.
Uh random numbers between minus one and plus three.
And again you can see the brackets here.
So I have an open bracket and a closed bracket down here.
And then each of the rows is one opening bracket and one small bracket.
And then if you count these there should be ten of these rows okay.
Uh normally distributed random numbers.
So Gaussian distribution uniform distribution.
We can also create random integers numpy.random dot rand int.
and here let's say -4 to 5.
And then I'm going to have like a tuple three comma five okay.
So this is going to give me random integers as low as minus four.
And this is a little tricky here as high as four.
This is an exclusive upper bound meaning that the number five is never going to appear in the output
of this function.
Okay.
And then the size that I want is going to be three by five.
So three rows and five columns.
And here we see all of those numbers.
So now you can see the numbers between minus four.
So here's a minus four.
Here's a plus four I'll run this again.
We're not going to see any fives.
So inclusive upper bound exclusive upper bound.
When we're working with integers or whole numbers that's just how it is.
Of course we can give this an output.
Let's call this int match for integer matrix.
And now I don't see the output, but it is stored in the int mat variable.
There is one more random function that I would like to introduce you to, and that is called choice.
In particular, it is Numpy.random choice.
And the idea of this function is that we provide an input of some set of numbers, and Python will randomly
choose one of those numbers.
So let's do let's create linearly spaced numbers between.
So I'll do numpy dot linspace between about minus four and plus I don't know 12345.
And let's have 85 numbers between them.
So let's just look and see what this is.
Okay.
So here we get numbers from minus four up to 12345 in listed in scientific notation here.
Now let's say we want to choose one of those numbers at random.
So I can write ln for linear numbers.
Linearly spaced numbers comma one.
And now Python is just going to pick one of those numbers at random.
Okay.
And I can run this again and again and again.
And we keep getting different results.
Because each of these numbers has a one inch 85 chance of being selected.
Okay.
And then yeah let's say we want 13 of these.
So now we're getting 13 of these numbers being selected by chance.
So each time I run this over and over again I'm going to get a different set of numbers.
But every single one of these numbers comes directly from this array over here.
Okay.
So this was an introduction to the Numpy.random module and in particular several different ways of generating
random numbers from various distributions, floating point numbers and integers, and also random selections
from existing sets of numbers.